Proofread developer chapter (#2590)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-23.10/developer/developer-broker-stream-connector.md

---

Centreon Broker provides a stream connector. If no suitable connector is
found among those provided, then this stream connector is sure to fulfill your

> needs. Its principle is to expose a part of Centreon Broker API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs. Its principle is to expose a part of the Centreon Broker API
```

  end
```

We recommend placing Lua scripts in the ``/usr/share/centreon-broker/lua``
directory. If this directory does not exist, you can create it. Just make sure the
directory is accessible to the centreon-broker user. If a stream connector
is composed of several files (a main script and a module, for example), you can
put them in that directory. If a dynamic library (``\*.so`` file) is used by
a Lua script, put it in the ``/usr/share/centreon-broker/lua/lib`` directory.

When Centreon Broker starts, it initializes all the configured connectors.
For the stream connector, it loads the Lua script, checks its syntax and
verifies that the ``init()`` and ``write()`` functions exist.

> Centreon Broker also checks if a function ``filter(category, element)`` exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Centreon Broker also checks if a ``filter(category, element)`` function exists.
```

The ``write()`` function is called each time an event is received from a poller
through the broker. This event is configured to be sent to this connector.
This function needs one argument, which is the event translated as a Lua table.

The ``write()`` function must return a boolean that is true if the events are processed
and false otherwise.

If this function does not return a boolean, Broker will raise an error.

## The Broker Lua SDK

To simplify the Lua developer's job, several objects are proposed and
made directly available to the script.

### The *broker_log* object

1. ``broker_log:set_parameters(level, filename)`` allows the user to set
   a log level and a file name. The level is an integer from 1 to 3, from the

>    most important to least important. The file name must contain the full path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   most important to the least important. The file name must contain the full path.
```

```

Here, when the ``init`` function is executed, the *broker_log* object is

> parameterized with a max level 3 and an output file */tmp/test.log*.

Reviewer: ?

The function must **not** be defined as `local`, otherwise it will not be
detected by Centreon Broker.

It takes two parameters into account: `category` and `element`. We have
already seen both in the previous section. The category is an integer from 1 to 7,

> or the value 65535. The `element` gives details of the event, for example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or the value 65535. The `element` parameter gives details of the event, for example,
```

  end

  function flush()

>     -- if the queue is empty, there is nothing to be done and we can tell Broker to empty its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -- if the queue is empty, nothing to do and we can tell Broker to empty its
```
